h2. Locknload

Locknload helps you to wrap your commands around a lockfile to avoid process
pile up or concurrent execution over many machines. This is mostly used on cron
jobs.

Concurrency control is made by using a dinamically defined lockfile per command.
This lockfile can be hosted on a local or remote/shared (NFS) lockdir. When
using NFS you can not only control if the command should or not run on the local
machine, but you can coordinate execution of that particular command beetwen a
set of machines.

Yes, locknload does manage to use lockfiles over NFS and that works just fine
over NFSv3. All you must to have is an NFS server that supports locking and
lockd running in your client. Sure you have a few different modes to choose, and
some of them does not even need the lockd or NFS server locking support to work.

To take advantage of lock control you need only to wrap your command around the
locknload:

<pre>
<code>
    locknload -c "command"
    locknload -d /nfs/locks -c "command"
</code>
</pre>

h2. Usage

Clone:

<pre>
<code>
    git clone https://github.com/stockrt/locknload.git
    cd locknload
</code>
</pre>

Using:

<pre>
<code>
    ./locknload -h

Usage: locknload [-v] [-o logfile] [-m lockmode] [-d lockdir] -c "command"
    -h
        Display this help text and exit.
    -V
        Display version number and exit.
    -v
        Verbosity level. Can be used more than once to increase verbosity.
        Default: 0
    -o logfile
        If defined all the execution output will be redirected to the logfile,
        otherwise normal stdout and stderr will be used.
        Default: None
    -m lockmode
        Lock acquisition mode. Available lockmodes are:
            flock       : Uses flock command from util-linux package.
        Lockmodes not yet implemented:
            lockfile    : Uses lockfile command from procmail package.
            hardlink    : Uses the technique described on open(2).
            mkdir       : Uses a directory as a lock.
        Default: flock
    -d lockdir
        Directory holding the locks. Should be an NFS directory shared among the
        servers running concurrent commands.
        Lockfiles found inside the lockdir are defined using some kind of
        textual hash derived from the original command. Inside the lockfile you
        will find the original command, the host which got the lock and the
        start/finish/fail execution time.
        Default: /tmp/locks
    -c command
        The command to be run itself. If you are trying to run something more
        complex, perhaps multiple commands with "&&" or ";" or commands with
        parameters, you should use quoting to encapsulate the command.
        Default: None
</code>
</pre>

h2. Author

Rogério Carvalho Schneider <stockrt@gmail.com>

"http://stockrt.github.com":http://stockrt.github.com

h2. Contributors

"People":https://github.com/stockrt/locknload/contributors

h2. Changelog

See "CHANGELOG.textile":https://github.com/stockrt/locknload/blob/master/CHANGELOG.textile

h2. License

See "LICENSE":https://github.com/stockrt/locknload/blob/master/LICENSE

h2. locknload.wav

Pronounced "lock and load" in honor of the great game Counter-Strike.

Counter-Strike and locknload.wav are Valve Corporation copyright, all rights reserved.
Counter-Strike is registered trademark of the Valve Corporation.
